I'd like to cover two issues in this
video the first issue is the angle of
the seat you'll note from my first video
that I made the seat horizontal when the
chair is freestanding
this was incorrect the seat needs to be
angled back so that when you sit on it
it rocks forward to a horizontal
position the second thing I'm going to
cover is how to drill a hole that has an
angle on two planes you can see here
that the leg is angled forward and
outwards cut the leg longer than you
need and then mark the center I'm using
half inch dowel to join the leg to the
seat
I'm using 15 degree angles in my chair
so I've set my sword 15 degrees and then
set my protractor to the same angle mark
the angle then cut along this 15 degree
angle with the 15 degree angle of the
saw you end up with 15 degrees on two
planes because I'm not smart enough to
work out what the angle of the diagonal
edges
I made a jig using similar pieces of
wood you can see that I've just glued
them on to the board on the diagonal
along the lines and then put a piece at
the end to rest my piece on when I drill
align the jig perpendicular to the drill
press it's a good idea to start with a
piece of scrap to make sure you get it
right this is how I want the leg to set
so it has a 15 degree angle forwards and
a 15 degree angle to the left you can
see that I've got a line along the
diagonal so I place my piece on my jig
aligning that diagonal line with my jig
line with the pattern line lined up with
the jig line I can then drill my hole
with the hole drilled I can now test to
see whether I've got everything correct
it's looking good
there's my left-hand angle and the angle
to the front now that I've proved my jig
is okay I can drill all the other angles
and eventually end up with a perfect
little rocking chair